Tolstoy began writing War and Peace in 1863, the year that he finally
married and settled down at his country estate. In September of that
year, he wrote to Elizabeth Bers, his sister-in-law, asking if she
could find any chronicles, diaries or records that related to the
Napoleonic period in Russia. He was dismayed to find that few written
records covered the domestic aspects of Russian life at that time, and
tried to rectify these omissions in his early drafts of the novel.[7]
The first half of the book was written and named "1805". During the
writing of the second half, he read widely and acknowledged
Schopenhauer as one of his main inspirations. Tolstoy wrote in a
letter to Afanasy Fet that what he had written in War and Peace is
also said by Schopenhauer in The World as Will and
Representation. However, Tolstoy approaches "it from the other
side."[8]
The first draft of the novel was completed in 1863. In 1865, the
periodical Russkiy Vestnik (The Russian Messenger) published the first
part of this draft under the title 1805 and published more the
following year. Tolstoy was dissatisfied with this version, although
he allowed several parts of it to be published with a different ending
in 1867. He heavily rewrote the entire novel between 1866 and
1869.[5][9] Tolstoy's wife, Sophia Tolstaya, copied as many as seven
separate complete manuscripts before Tolstoy considered it ready for
publication.[9] The version that was published in Russkiy Vestnik had
a very different ending from the version eventually published under
the title War and Peace in 1869. Russians who had read the serialized
version were eager to buy the complete novel, and it sold out almost
immediately. The novel was immediately translated after publication
into many other languages.

